# Ojitype

Ojitype is a virtual keyboard for typing Ojibwe syllabics that runs entirely with client-side JavaScript on HTML5.

To run the keyboard, you just need `ojitype.html` (which you can rename to anything you want), and a syllabics font in WOFF format named `NotoSansCanadianAboriginal-Regular.woff` that is placed in the same directory as the HTML file.

The syllabics font is a free font available from the Github user `notofonts` in their `NotoSansCanadianAboriginal` distribution.  Find the font in the `fonts/ttf/hinted/instance_ttf` directory, choose the `Regular` variety, and then run it through the `sfnt2woff` utility to convert it to WOFF.

There is a lookup table within the HTML file that is automatically generated by the `buildtable.pl` Perl script.  You do not need to run the Perl script to use Ojitype, since the result is already present in the HTML file.  The Perl script is also able to print out a test page so that you can see all the syllabics syllables rendered in a chosen CSS font.

The Perl script requires a character table, which is provided in `chartable.txt`

## Changes

### Version 0.2.0-Beta (Current)

Updated the syllabics keyboard layout to simplify usage and also add full Latin support.  Lots of the code was derived from the `t2web` project and adapted here, though the `t2web` project originally borrowed code from this project.

### Version 0.1.0-Alpha

Used a different, prototype keyboard layout.  The JavaScript code was designed originally for this project.
